Update GEP-713 and add BackendTLSPolicy implementation (#2448)
kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api: geps/gep-713.md

This is already part of the API pattern, but is being lifted to more prominience
here.

#### Standard status struct

> Status: Recommended

Reviewer: Maybe this would be clearer?
```suggestion
Status: Experimental
```

Policy objects SHOULD use the upstream `PolicyAncestorStatus` struct in their respective
Status structs. Please see the included `PolicyAncestorStatus` struct, and its use in
the `BackendTLSPolicy` object for detailed examples. Included here is a representative
version.

> 

Reviewer: Not exactly sure where this belongs, but I think some content roughly like this would help show that we want _everyone_ to migrate to this approach, and provide some rationale for why it will be beneficial.
```suggestion
This pattern enables different conditions to be set for different "Ancestors"
of the target resource. This is particularly helpful for policies that may be
implemented by multiple controllers or attached to resources with different
capabilities. This pattern also provides a clear view of what resources a
policy is affecting.

For the best integration with community tooling and consistency across
the broader community, we recommend that all implementations transition 
to Policy status with this kind of nested structure.
```

Author: Yeah, love it.

This is an `Ancestor` status rather than a `Parent` status, as in the Route status
because for Policy attachment, the relevant object may or may not be the direct
parent.

For example, `BackendTLSPolicy` directly attaches to a Service, which may be included

> in multiple Routes, in multiple Gateways. However, the status of the `BackendTLSPolicy`
> will be different only at the Gateway level, so Gateway is the relevant Ancestor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in multiple Routes, in multiple Gateways. However, for many implementations, 
the status of the `BackendTLSPolicy` will be different only at the Gateway level, 
so Gateway is the relevant Ancestor
```

for the status.

Each Gateway that has a Route that includes a backend with an attached `BackendTLSPolicy`
MUST have a separate `PolicyAncestorStatus` section in the `BackendTLSPolicy`'s
`status.ancestors` stanza, which mandates that entries must be distinct using the
combination of the `AncestorRef` and the `ControllerName` fields as a key.

See [GEP-1897][gep-1897] for the exact details.

[gep-1897]: /geps/gep-1897

```go
// PolicyAncestorStatus describes the status of a route with respect to an
// associated Ancestor.
//

> // The object that a Policy attaches to (the object in its TargetRef) is its
> // _parent_, and any other objects above it in an object hierarchy are its
> // _ancestors_.

Reviewer: Maybe something like this?
```suggestion
// Ancestors refer to objects that are either the Target of a policy or above it in terms
// of object hierarchy. For example, if a policy targets a Service, an Ancestor could be
// a Route or a Gateway. 

// In the context of policy attachment, the Ancestor is used to distinguish which
// resource results in a distinct application of this policy. For example, if a policy
// targets a Service, it may have a distinct result per attached Gateway.
```

// 

> // For some Policies, particularly Direct Attached Policies, the relevant object
> // that distinguishes its status is not necessarily the parent object.

Reviewer: Maybe something like this would also show the other use case here which is when different implementations are implementing the same policy.
```suggestion
// Policies targeting the same resource may have different effects depending on the 
// ancestors of those resources. For example, different Gateways targeting the same
// Service may have different capabilities, especially if they have different underlying
// implementations. 
```

//
// For example, in BackendTLSPolicy, the Policy attaches to a Service that is
// used as a backend in a HTTPRoute that is itself attached to a Gateway.
// In this case, the relevant object for status is the Gateway, and that is the
// ancestor object referred to in this status.
//

> // Note that a parent is also an ancestor, so for objects where the parent is the
> // relevant object for status, this struct SHOULD still be used.

Reviewer: For some reason it's confusing to me to consider the "Target" of a policy the "Parent" of that policy. Would this make sense?
```suggestion
// Note that a Target of a Policy is also a valid Ancestor, so for objects where the 
// Target is the relevant object for status, this struct SHOULD still be used.
```

	// longer necessary.
	ControllerName GatewayController `json:"controllerName"`

	// Conditions describes the status of the Policy with respect to the given Ancestor.
	//
	// +listType=map
	// +listMapKey=type
	// +kubebuilder:validation:MinItems=1
	// +kubebuilder:validation:MaxItems=8
	Conditions []metav1.Condition `json:"conditions,omitempty"`
}

// PolicyStatus defines the common attributes that all Policies SHOULD include
// within their status.
type PolicyStatus struct {
	// Ancestors is a list of ancestor resources (usually Gateways) that are
	// associated with the route, and the status of the route with respect to
	// each ancestor. When this route attaches to a parent, the controller that
	// manages the parent and the ancestors MUST add an entry to this list when
	// the controller first sees the route and SHOULD update the entry as
	// appropriate when the relevant ancestor is modified.
	//
	// Note that choosing the relevant ancestor is left to the Policy designers;
	// an important part of Policy design is designing the right object level at
	// which to namespace this status.
	//

> 	// Note also that parent references that cannot be resolved by an implementation
> 	// of this API will not be added to this list. Implementations of this API
> 	// can only populate ancestor status for the parent resources they are
> 	// responsible for.

Reviewer: I think this is roughly the same thing you're saying, feel free to reject if it doesn't make sense:

```suggestion
	// Note also that implementations MUST ONLY populate ancestor status for 
	// the Ancestor resources they are responsible for. Implementations MUST
	// use the ControllerName field to uniquely identify the entries in this list
	// that they are responsible for.
```

	//
	// A maximum of 32 ancestors will be represented in this list. An empty list
	// means the Policy is not relevant for any ancestors.
	//
	// +kubebuilder:validation:MaxItems=32
	Ancestors []PolicyAncestorStatus `json:"ancestors"`
}
```

##### Design considerations

This is recommended as the base for Policy object's status. As Policy Attachment
is a pattern, not an API, "recommended" is the strongest we can make this, but
we believe that standardizing this will help a lot with discoverability.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add something like this?
```suggestion

Note that is likely that all Gateway API tooling will expect policy status to follow
this structure. To benefit from broader consistency and discoverability, we
recomment transitioning to this structure for all Gateway API Policies.
```

	// longer necessary.
	ControllerName GatewayController `json:"controllerName"`

	// Conditions describes the status of the Policy with respect to the given Ancestor.
	//
	// +listType=map
	// +listMapKey=type
	// +kubebuilder:validation:MinItems=1
	// +kubebuilder:validation:MaxItems=8
	Conditions []metav1.Condition `json:"conditions,omitempty"`
}

// PolicyStatus defines the common attributes that all Policies SHOULD include
// within their status.
type PolicyStatus struct {
	// Ancestors is a list of ancestor resources (usually Gateways) that are
	// associated with the route, and the status of the route with respect to
	// each ancestor. When this route attaches to a parent, the controller that
	// manages the parent and the ancestors MUST add an entry to this list when
	// the controller first sees the route and SHOULD update the entry as
	// appropriate when the relevant ancestor is modified.
	//
	// Note that choosing the relevant ancestor is left to the Policy designers;
	// an important part of Policy design is designing the right object level at
	// which to namespace this status.
	//

>   // Note also that implementations MUST ONLY populate ancestor status for 
>   // the Ancestor resources they are responsible for. Implementations MUST
>   // use the ControllerName field to uniquely identify the entries in this list
>   // that they are responsible for.

Reviewer: Non-blocking nit:
```suggestion
	// Note also that implementations MUST ONLY populate ancestor status for 
	// the Ancestor resources they are responsible for. Implementations MUST
	// use the ControllerName field to uniquely identify the entries in this list
	// that they are responsible for.
```
